# personnal-files

Tennesse Williams once told us, there comes a time u look in the mirror,
and you realize that what you see is all you'll ever be, and then you accept yourself or you kill yourself, or you stop looking in the mirrors.
And speaking of mirrors, someone else once said, If we spend too much time scrutinizing what is in our rear view mirror, we are certain to crash into a light post. I have spent the last four years of my life studying people who look in mirrors,rear view and otherwise in their search for self-awareness. I want to know what self-awareness really is,where it comes from, why we need it,and how to get more of it. A research team surveyed quantitatively thousands of people, and analyze nearly 800 scientific studies, and conduct dozens of in-depth interviews with people who made dramatic improvements in their self-awareness. Initially, they r actually worried that they would not find anything about those people that r called self-awareness unicorns. But luckily, they did find them. because what the unicorns taught them is what create a ground-breaking relation for all of us can find genuine self-awareness. And that's what I wanna share with u. Today I want u to reflect on how u r reflecting. I know that's a mouthful. To get there , we must shatter one of the mostly held beliefs about find self-awareness.
But fist of all, what is the thing we call self-awareness anyway? It is the ability to see us clearly and understand who we r, how others see us and how we fit into the world. Self-awareness gives us power. We might not always like what we see, but there is a comfort in knowing ourselves. And there is a ton of research showing that people who r self-aware are more fulfilled. They have stronger relationships, they r more creative and they r more confident and had better communicators. They r less like to cheat, lie and steal. They perform better at work and are more promotable. And they r more effective leaders with more profitable  companies. In the world of self-awareness, there r two types of people, those who think they r self-awareness, and those who actually r. And it's true. A team found that 95% of people studied thought they r self-aware, but actually it is close to 10-15%. U know what it means, It means on a good day, 80% of us are lying to oursel  ves about [whether we r lying to ourselves]. Pretty scary, right? so u can imagine the challenge we had in figuring out who was truly self-aware.What do u think would've happened if I say, 'Hey, how self-aware r u?' And 50 of thousands of thousands of thousands of people they researched met the criteria of being self-aware. They r professionals, entrepreneurs, artists, students, stay-at-home parents. And they did not find any pattern based on industry, gender, age or any other demographic characteristics. The unicorns helped the researchers find a most interesting truth, that methods that we used to introspect ourselves is totally wrong. So there is a reason that most of us is not self-aware. When analyzing the data, it is not understatement to say they r surprised. They just run a small study about the relationship between self-awareness and things like happiness, stress and job satisfaction. Naturally, people who introspect most would be better of. Do u think so? The data tells the exactly opposite story. People who introspect were more stressed, less satisfied with their jobs and relationships with others and less control of thier lives. I don't what is going on, and what is more serious, these negative consequence increased the more they introspected. 

so I was quite confused. later that week, the author ended up coming across a 20-year-old study that looked at how widowers adjusted to life without their life without their partners. The truth that the researched found is that those who try to understand the meaning of their loss were happier, less depressed one month later, but one year later, were more depressed. There were more fixated on what happened to them instead of moving forward. Have u been there? Self-analysis can trap us in a mental hell of our own making. So thing start to make sense. But most of u, the audience, may be thinking that, sure, it may be depressing, but it worth it because the insight it produces. Yes, u r right. I am not tell u that the persuit of self-awareness is a waste of time. Not at all.I am here to tell u the way u pursue it doesn't work. Here is the surprising reality: thinking urself is not related to knowing ourselves. So to understand this, let us look at the most common introspective question:Why. we might be searching for the cause of a bad mood. Why am I so upset afer that fight with my friend? Or we might be questioning out beliefs. Why don't I believe death penalty? Or we might try to understand a negative outcome: why did I choke in that meeting? Unfortunately, when we asked why, it does not lead us toward the truth of ourselves. It leads us away from it. There are so many reasons in this case, today I'll give u two:

Here is the first reason that we should not ask why: researchers have found that no matter how hard u try, we cannot [excavate] our unconscious thoughts, feelings and motives.And because so much is hidden under our conscious awareness, we end up inventing answers that feel true but are often very wrong. So let me give u an example: Two psychologists set up a card table, And on that card table, they laid out four identical pairs of socks, and asked people passing by to pick up their favorite. The result shows that people tend to prefer products on the right. People tend to choose the fourth pair at a rate of 4 to 1. And when asked whether they picked pair 4, they just answered confidently that pair 4 is just better. even the researchers told them the effect of positioning, they refused to believe it.

The second reason that we should not ask why is that it leads us away from our true nature. We like to think of our brains as a super computer, rationally analyze information and get accurate conclusion. Unfortunately, that's not what happens. Let's do a quick exercise that's based on another classic psychology study. If I were ask u to make a list of reasons that ur romantic relationship goes as it was, what would u say? Let's say in general that your relationship is pretty awesome. but pretend that u happened to get in a huge fight about the proper way to load the dishwasher. Really bad. Now because of something called the recency effect, this is going to carry an unfair amount of weight. You might start thinking of things like this,"I am so sick if his mansplaining". Or you might think: why the hell does it matter so much how I load the dishwasher. and by going through it, you're thinking your relationship isn't going so well. [Asking why creats alternative facts].
And over time, this leads us away from who we really are. It clouds us self-perception.

So u might be wondering if asking why makes us depressed, over-confident and wrong, it is probably not going to increase our self-awareness. But don't worry. I am not standing here to tell u to stop thinking about yourself, I am telling u to do it just a little bit differently.

So if we shouldn't ask why, what should we ask. When researchers reviewed hundreds of the transcript of these self-awareness unicorn, they find a clear pattern. while the word 'Why' appeared less than 150 times, the word 'what' appeared more than 1000 times. 

So let me give u a few of examples. Hellen, a brand manager, got a poor review of her season performance. Instead of asking, why r we like oil and water? She asked, what should I do to show her I am the best for this job? It changed everything. People now point to Hellen and her boss as proof that polar opposites can work together. 

Sarah, an education leader, was diagnosed with breast cancer in her late 40s. When asked "why me", it felt like a death sentence. So when I asked 'what is most important to me', things has changed because it helps her to define what her life should look like the time left to her. Now she is cancer free and focuses more on the relationship that means the most to her.

So these r just 3 examples that most self-awareness ask what instead of why. Do I have Hellen or sarah in the room?

And about another example, An writer, write a book which spent her thousand of hours targeting to make some change to peoples life. And she take proud of it. However, one day, for some unknown reasons, she do something that most authors are not supposed to do, she read the Amazon reviews. It was devastating. She asked, Why are people so mean to her when the book is meant to change their life. she felt frustrated. However, when she began to ask, what about those who tell her that the book has changed their lives. What a different outcome.

This is not an easy world, isn't it? Not at all. She knows, we all know. There are so much evidence that self-awareness gives us a better shot at finding happiness and success in this crazy world. To start, we need only change a simple word, from why to what. Why questions trapped us in the rear mirror, what questions move us toward a better world. As human beings, we r blessed with the ability to understand who we r, what we want to contribute, and the kind of life we want to lead. Remember that our self-awareness unicorns have nothing in common, except a belief to self-awareness and a daily commitment to developing it. That means that all of us can be unicorns. 

The search for self-awareness never ever stops. Life goes on. It is up to us to choose to learn and grow through our mistakes, our tragedies and our successes. One of the best quates that I have ever heard is from Rumi. He said, "Yesterday I am clever, so I want to change the world. Today I am wise, So I decide to change myself". thank you very much.